# amazingtec-gtb
AmazingTec website branch with Gatsby and gatsby-source-wordpress, using WP REST API v2.
### What this actually does?
This is basically a front-end optimization to my website that actually doesn't rely on WordPress "for everything", only to receive the data using the WP REST API v2 and show it in a light manner.
### How this works?
This project uses Gatsby and gatsby-source-wordpress to query the API and show the posts and React for the website in general.
### Does this project has a license?
This project does not have a license. However, you **can** use this code and adapt it if you're trying to build your project and needs something to start. I don't guarantee that this _will_ work OOB. Most of the projects that includes Gatsby and gatsby-source-wordpress has some independent pieces of code that varies between WordPress installations, such as the usage of authentication plugins for authenticated REST queries and such.
### Anything I should know about this project before I start?
Yes:
1. This project has been developed on a Linux distro (Fedora) and it does the job pretty well! During development, there were some issues while compiling it on Windows, more specifically regarding permissions (which actually made the act of compiling nearly impossible, apparently this error is fixed by just executing the Command Prompt as an Administrator. Just type cmd over the Start menu, right click the cmd executable and execute as an Administrator), so any issues related should be tested in a different development environment. I've used Atom and VS Code as editors, and any editor in the market should do the job.
2. Be aware that, depending on how you're configuring your gatsby-config file, it might be necessary to use an username and a password. If this is the case, make sure that you're using an updated plugin on your WordPress site and that your account is not related to the administration of the site. Refer to WP REST API Handbook (https://bit.ly/2natJXb) and to gatsby-source-wordpress documentation (https://bit.ly/2fQCh3Q) for more information. If you're not sure whether it will work or not, test with a local environment first, rather than testing with a live website. Then, make your observations and then adapt your project to receive data from the live version.
3. At the time I'm writing this README.md, gatsby-source-wordpress seems to use svgo and, at this time, it didn't update a peer dependency called js-yaml, which is related to a huge issue that can eventually lead to a denial of service. Make sure you're running the latest version of every single dependency and plugin on your development environment.
4. Also, gatsby-source-wordpress uses graphql. However, during most of the time, you'll notice that several peer dependencies asks for graphql@^0.1x, while you'll probably have graphql@^14.x installed. There's no need of installing graphql@^0.1x, it'll run just fine over the latest version (as some of the graphql usage on gatsby-source-wordpress are deprecated).
5. Depending on how much content you have over your website, the _gatsby develop_ command should take a while to run, specially when you have 2000+ image files (my case). My tip would be: add a blacklist to the images and run your code when needed. ISSUE 6654 ON GATSBY.
6. Also, image files that aren't connected to a published post might eventually lead to an error, saying that it failed to process the remote content. This is completely normal and appears to happen only to this specific case.
7. Some WordPress sites doesn't use pages, only posts, so you can adapt this code in order to reflect this. Adapt your gatsby-node.js file in order to proceed.
8. During the initialization of your development environment (over Linux Terminal), run all the commands using normal permissions and avoid using superuser permissions during the initialization phase. This can lead to unforeseen consequences right away. 
